chapters/chapter1/notes.md, before:

# chapter 1 notes

## chapter 1.2

### implication

implication (sometimes also referred to as conditionals), are statements in the form of `if P then Q`

in this statement `P` is the hypothesis (aka. antecedent) and `Q` is the conclusion (aka. consequent)



## chapter 1.3

### logical equivalence

logical equivalance is when two statements have the same result

one such example is that `if P then Q` is logically equivalent to `not P or Q`

### modus tollens

modus tollens states that if given `if P then Q`, and given `not P`, then `not Q` can be inferred

### de morgan's law

de morgan's law states that `not (P and Q)` is logically equivalent to `not P or not Q`

it also states that `not (P or Q)` is logically equivalent to `not P and not Q`

### double negation

double negation states that `not not P` is logically equivalent to `P`

### negation of implication

negation of implication states that `not (if P then Q)` is logically equicalent to `P and not Q`

### deduction rules

deduction rules are statements that always evaluate to true

### modus ponens

modus ponens states that if given `if P then Q`, and given `P`, then `Q` can be inferred

### deduction examples

if given `if P then Q` and `if not P then Q` therefore `Q` is true, we can conclude that this statement is true because `P or not P` always evaluates to true

if given `if P then R`, `if Q then R`, and `R` therefore `P or Q` is true, we can conclude this because we are given that `R` is true and that R can only be true if either `P` or `Q` is true.

Commit message:

defenitions for converse contrapositive and inverse

chapters/chapter1/notes.md, after:

# chapter 1 notes

## chapter 1.2

### implication

implication (sometimes also referred to as conditionals), are statements in the form of `if P then Q`

in this statement `P` is the hypothesis (aka. antecedent) and `Q` is the conclusion (aka. consequent)

### converse

the converse of `if P then Q` is `if Q then P`

### contrapositive

the contrapositive of `if P then Q` is `if not Q then not P`

### inverse

the inverse of `if P then Q` is `if not P then not Q`

## chapter 1.3

### logical equivalence

logical equivalance is when two statements have the same result

one such example is that `if P then Q` is logically equivalent to `not P or Q`

### modus tollens

modus tollens states that if given `if P then Q`, and given `not P`, then `not Q` can be inferred

### de morgan's law

de morgan's law states that `not (P and Q)` is logically equivalent to `not P or not Q`

it also states that `not (P or Q)` is logically equivalent to `not P and not Q`

### double negation

double negation states that `not not P` is logically equivalent to `P`

### negation of implication

negation of implication states that `not (if P then Q)` is logically equicalent to `P and not Q`

### deduction rules

deduction rules are statements that always evaluate to true

### modus ponens

modus ponens states that if given `if P then Q`, and given `P`, then `Q` can be inferred

### deduction examples

if given `if P then Q` and `if not P then Q` therefore `Q` is true, we can conclude that this statement is true because `P or not P` always evaluates to true

if given `if P then R`, `if Q then R`, and `R` therefore `P or Q` is true, we can conclude this because we are given that `R` is true and that R can only be true if either `P` or `Q` is true.
